[Music]
9 survival myths that could actually
hurt you
there are many rules out there
explaining how to behave in emergency
situations but are all of them really
effective in fact some of those survival
tips are myths that are not only useless
but also potentially dangerous myth
number one if you're bitten by a snake
you need to suck the poison out in fact
snake venom enters the bloodstream
extremely quickly and it doesn't
accumulate at the bitten area trying to
suck it out is ineffective moreover if
you put your mouth on the bite you might
get venom into your mouth and esophagus
the better solution is to get to the
hospital as quickly as possible to
prevent poison from moving through the
bloodstream a bite victim should remain
calm keep the 1 below the level of the
heart and drink plenty of liquids myth
number 2 if you get lost in the forest
you need to find some food immediately
in fact this is not entirely true
a healthy person can live without food
for quite a long time up to 6 weeks your
first priority is actually to find a
source of safe drinking water and build
a shelter where you can hide from
extreme weather talking about the
shelter do you know how to build a great
one here is the myth number three um
lean-to is a great shelter from bad
weather in fact just building a lean-to
isn't enough before you get started on a
suitable shelter you should assess your
surroundings and weather conditions you
need a shelter that can protect you from
the wind rain or scorching Sun that's
why you should build up a layer to
insulate you from the cool ground at
night
myth number four the fluid in a cactus
can save you from dying of thirst in
fact only some types of cacti provide
relatively safe drinking water you can
also get moisture from the cactus named
opuntia but most of the time cacti are
poisonous drinking their fluid will make
you sick causing you to vomit a precious
liquid and leaving you more dehydrated
myth number five if you encounter a bear
on the trail
play dead in fact bears don't want to
attack much less eat you all they want
to do is just to protect their territory
so if you suddenly see a bear stop and
back away slowly keeping a close eye on
the bear also keep your distance this
will show the bear that you don't have
any pre tensions of its territory myth
number six if an animal eats something
you can eat it too
in fact some berries and mushrooms that
are deadly to humans aren't poisonous to
many animals and birds so you can eat
only those berries and mushrooms you can
accurately identify as edible species
without a doubt myth number seven moss
grows on the north side of a tree in
fact moss can grow on all sides of a
tree it depends on environmental
conditions don't rely on this popular
myth while trying to find your way out
of the forest or you will get lost myth
number eight if someone gets hypothermia
you need to put them into a hot tub in
fact never do that also
never rub the frostbitten areas because
this may cause further tissue damage you
also shouldn't use hot water or a
heating lamp to warm the victim instead
you should warm the person's core up
gradually in order not to cause shock to
their body use blankets and place some
warm water bottles under their armpits
finally the last one myth number nine if
a shark attacks you you should punch it
in its nose you might have heard this
myth in some movies or news even if this
is true not many people have enough
strength to do this especially
underwater
in fact eyes and gills of the shark are
much more vulnerable also try to put a
solid object between you and the animal
for example a
masks or swim board so what is the most
dangerous situation you have been in
what helps you to survive let us know in
the comments below and if you're
visiting our channel for the first time
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
you